James Wade: My technical accomplishments of being able to turn my camera on this time.
Articulation Coach: I am very impressive.
Articulation Coach: Well, weren't you on the call where I was also
Articulation Coach: like on a device for my sound? And my computer was separate.
Articulation Coach: All.
James Wade: I don't think so.
Articulation Coach: I was having. I had zoom issues last week. I feel like the Zoom update bug is getting people.
Articulation Coach: But today the second coaching session is all about outlining and seeing where you are in that process, and hopefully, by the end I can be of support to you to help you feel really confident in that outline before you move to the next phase of the process.
Articulation Coach: So where are you in process, James?
James Wade: So I funny enough. So this is I. I hope you don't pay as much attention to
James Wade: AI and language models as I do. But Gpt 5 came out today, which is like the very fancy new model from Openai.
James Wade: and so my presentation is probably gonna change a little bit, because it can now do crazy things
James Wade: on its own without me needing to do anything. So I asked it. I I'll just. It'll be easier if I show you it.
Articulation Coach: Sure.
James Wade: So I told it. I was like, Hey, I write a bunch of shiny apps. Impress me.
Articulation Coach: I didn't. That was all. I all I gave it.
James Wade: And it gave me.
James Wade: Did I share? What did I share.
Articulation Coach: I'm seeing your fractal lab right now.
James Wade: Okay, cool. Yeah. So this is what it created. So you can make these little. I don't even know what it does. But this is like super fresh. I just
James Wade: was playing around with this.
James Wade: Maybe I shouldn't have gone up so high. Go back down and
James Wade: well, maybe you can just ignore me because it's okay. There we go.
James Wade: It's creating mathy, generative art.
James Wade: But I guess I thought that I would. I would enjoy that. And like the cool stuff that I can do is, let's see.
James Wade: yeah, saves images and give you a new palette, apparently
James Wade: little slow. So I guess I'll complain. I can complain to it about that.
James Wade: and we can go with. Let's see
James Wade: that one was boring.
James Wade: How about that one?
James Wade: So, anyway?
James Wade: I'm very tempted. I I will have to see how how things go as as it lead up to it. But to see if I can actually create one live
James Wade: with some level of backup. So as a reminder.
James Wade: The talk itself is all about disposable shiny up. So this idea would be something that you create once and throw it away.
Articulation Coach: Yep.
James Wade: And where I'm sitting is, I have
James Wade: okay. So I have the outline and
James Wade: would it be helpful for me to share it or just talk through it.
Articulation Coach: Maybe share it, because then, if I have, because you use a lot of language that I don't recall as quickly. So then I can always recall to your language.
James Wade: Okay. So thinking, here is what I kind of want to get through is.
James Wade: I started doing like timing breakdown for that. But that was like, I don't know. I don't think I'm ready for timing breakdown yet.
James Wade: But I want to
James Wade: get people ex under to understand this idea that I want more shiny apps to exist in the world.
James Wade: And so the basic I'll I'll go through the like. The basic idea that I have for the workflow or the flow for the talk, and then talk a little bit about the hook.
James Wade: So I want to introduce that idea of like disposable, shiny app. I think that's like, you know, people will be interest, hopefully intrigued by the title. And then, yeah, here's kind of say, my goal is, I want you to build more shiny apps and throw them away. I kind of like the surprise of the just throw them away, because that feels like something that we've liked.
James Wade: And we don't want to throw away something. We've grown attached to
James Wade: motivating that by talking about the traps that I think people are gonna get into, which is thinking that it's too much effort to go build something once or the the opposite of where they end up being like, yeah, I'll build this. And then they spend like 40 h building something that you know, they really should have been doing their day job. Sort of thing.
James Wade: I am in a weird situation for the presentation. So I work. I think I shared last time I work at Dow, and Dow is doing terribly as a company right now.
James Wade: which means I am paying out of pocket for the travel.
James Wade: which means, technically, I'm speaking as a as
James Wade: James, not as James research scientist at Dell.
James Wade: The legal ease of that is confusing, but I'm less tethered, but a little bit more constrained in the examples that I give because it shouldn't. It should be something, a talk that I could be able to give outside of my
James Wade: actual job responsibilities.
Articulation Coach: But you can't bring as much.
James Wade: Yeah.
Articulation Coach: Example.
James Wade: Yes, but I think I you know
James Wade: I'm not one to follow, to be too overburdened by rules, so
James Wade: I I won't try to get myself in trouble. But I'm trying to use this to be more fun with it in a way that somebody in like the Technical Review we have internally might just kind of.
James Wade: you know.
James Wade: think is too far. But like this idea of making death by Powerpoint kind of real. And how this is like, hey? You're a data scientist. Don't you really want to be building and writing code building apps and writing code rather than you know, falling into the traps here, actually, I think, are both of these. The fears of this of Don't build and over build the trap is that you end up doing more Powerpoints.
James Wade: I'm like
James Wade: nobody's here for that, right? The you want to use them to tell a story, and if an app can tell that story better.
James Wade: then, like, let's build apps.
Articulation Coach: Great.
James Wade: So that is kind of motivating rolling into
James Wade: this next part, which is just to say, like, Okay.
James Wade: the big shift that you need to make is not actually changing the
James Wade: approach that you're using. It's changing the mindset because you always could have built these simple apps. But you talked yourself out of them before.
James Wade: And even if you did think that they were going to be too much of a time, sync that example that I just showed you of like some cool, generative art type thing that I you know it was a sentence of mine, and then, you know, an app comes out. The other end of it.
Articulation Coach: So.
James Wade: What could you do with that? And I'm thinking this could be a good time for an app demo
James Wade: of.
James Wade: Here's a fun thing that I built just for this conference. I'm gonna throw it away after.
Articulation Coach: Yeah.
James Wade: If I feel super cheeky, maybe I delete the app at the end of the talk. I don't know.
Articulation Coach: I love. I love the drama of that. So that's kind of fun.
Articulation Coach: This is going. This is going really well so far feel free to keep going. I'm following really easily.
James Wade: So the next one is to be like kind of nuts and bolts. Of what?
James Wade: How do you do this? Right like? There, I think there are some best practices for this.
James Wade: The 1st is
James Wade: the, I think, one comment you had last time. That, I think, is a good one, is to say, you know part of what
James Wade: One of the benefits of putting a a presentation together is that it forces you to think through your story.
James Wade: I have similarly, one of the apps that I built helps uses generative AI capabilities to help people write reports. Now, these are internal technical boring reports, but some of the critiques I get are that people don't.
James Wade: If I, if you use it, they're not going to discover things they would have through that creation process of writing.
James Wade: I think the same thing is true for these presentations. So what does that? What does that come from? So
James Wade: maybe to
James Wade: you? Have a little bit of a contradiction. One way you could have this is to go start making your presentation, and then go land on this this question that you that you want or like, I don't know. Point you really want to bring across. And instead of trying to create a compelling visual, you create an app.
James Wade: The.
Articulation Coach: So it's you then could go.
Articulation Coach: I'm hearing. That's the part you can't shortcut.
James Wade: Yes. Yes.
James Wade: Yeah.
Articulation Coach: That's great!
James Wade: Then there's some like logistical stuff going like, use a template. There's like you can do styling. I'm not gonna like the styling. I'm gonna go over super fast because 2 talks after mine is an entire talk on styling
James Wade: using the same approach. And then this is where, like I would like to have
James Wade: so I'm thinking here of, like the 1st one is
James Wade: a cool app that I show the creation process right? So this is where I'm using the new
James Wade: that'll be highlighted at Comp of this positron assistant. And then here is where I want to say, like.
James Wade: here's a demo I.
James Wade: The one of one of the ideas we talked about was a cat chaos coordinator. I have 3 kids, so maybe I'll have one about like who has like?
James Wade: Do I feed the cat, or do I feed the baby? I guess they're not babies or 2 now.
James Wade: But I don't know something along those lines of like just make sticking with this. Here's a, you know, throwaway app. That's still fun.
James Wade: Here's so the next part kind of
James Wade: right before what I'm thinking of as a call to action is
James Wade: the what anticipating the objections that people have like who's gonna support this
James Wade: where you know the cheeky thing of, you know I built this while we were talking. So why do you care about who's gonna report it, or support it.
James Wade: or a point about, are we gonna just be like
James Wade: people are already in dashboard. Hell, are we gonna make that worse?
James Wade: Thinking about just these different objections? And then also the last one of yeah, this sounds nice. But am I really gonna just end up doing more work?
James Wade: And I gotta think about how to answer those. Well, I've kind of notes there, but you know it.
James Wade: yeah. So having some.
Articulation Coach: A thought, a thought just coming in right there, a thought that comes in my mind there is that that sounds like more work. You could do a comparison like you suggested.
Articulation Coach: But you could also just tell people, you know, like, if it really is more work for you, then don't take this approach.
James Wade: Okay.
Articulation Coach: Like you could say for me. I like shiny apps. It doesn't take me as much time, because I spend most of my time doing coding.
Articulation Coach: and Powerpoint is not a tool I use as often.
James Wade: Yep.
Articulation Coach: Right? So you could just acknowledge. That probably means you aren't, aren't actually the person.
James Wade: Good point.
Articulation Coach: And or the other one is is maybe it's slightly more work, but if it's more fun work it might go by faster
Articulation Coach: because you are talking to people where maybe the Powerpoint is not as fun.
James Wade: S.
Articulation Coach: The other work.
James Wade: Powerpoint can be fun, too. Just different fun.
Articulation Coach: Yeah, I was in Powerpoint hell. Earlier today. I was, I was teaching while you were emailing me a brand new class.
James Wade: So then I'm thinking of kind of going back into this. So
James Wade: a very brief recap of like.
James Wade: we have these new tools, you can use them. But emphasizing this, this idea, that's a mindset shift. Right? So it's not really asking you to learn something new. It's asking you to change your behavior and do something you already know how to do
James Wade: and then kind of challenging them of like, you know.
James Wade: give it a try the next time you have your your next stakeholder meeting, surprise them with an app sort of thing.
Articulation Coach: Yeah.
Articulation Coach: Outline structure, great James. And it really feels like it could fall in the timeframe. I have just a couple of things that might
Articulation Coach: just help tie it even more tightly together. For you.
Articulation Coach: 1st of all, I love the new mindset idea that you have at the beginning that one of the hardest things to do is actually going to be to change your mindset
Articulation Coach: about this, and that is great fun.
Articulation Coach: Let's see, we talked about the part you can't. Shortcut is also great.
Articulation Coach: You then, said the styling piece. You don't want to go into as much, because there's something later, right.
James Wade: Yep.
Articulation Coach: I mean, when you start narrating this, I would consider just saying it
Articulation Coach: like, cut all the styling, perhaps, and say.
James Wade: Okay.
Articulation Coach: And and just say, I'm you know I'm not going to talk about styling at all today, because there's some. There's a great talk coming later about it, or there's a talk coming in this session all about that
Articulation Coach: now, where I think you can save a little bit of smoothness, and time is
Articulation Coach: when you do the fun, demo with the cat chaos coordinator!
Articulation Coach: Hilarious!
Articulation Coach: Is it possible, as you go through the steps, to be walking us to that demo.
Articulation Coach: So when you get when you talk about, start with question, can you say so? Let's take an example. And you actually get us to the question that leads you to needing the
Articulation Coach: cat. Ks Coordinator.
James Wade: Yeah.
Articulation Coach: And then you show us a template that you chose, and then you do the style in seconds. So then step 4.
Articulation Coach: You've been doing it all along.
James Wade: I like it. Yeah.
Articulation Coach: It's more than who is hungry if we actually do the hard work of this question, though, because when I look at cuteness level and last petting time.
Articulation Coach: It's the question's actually more. You know something about who needs me the most, or who will. I feel best. Having fed.
James Wade: Yeah, yeah.
Articulation Coach: There's an interaction here. It's more complicated.
James Wade: Yeah, my kids did make an appearance in the
James Wade: my last posit comp talk. So I that that can be a theme. And then 2 times ago they made me so. I missed because my wife went into labor so.
Articulation Coach: I can't believe you were like like that. Would she go in particularly early into labor?
James Wade: Oh, yeah, she was super early, they were they. They were twins, and they, she didn't actually give birth. Then it was false labor. So yeah.
James Wade: it's a long story. But they they all. Everybody is great
James Wade: other than the you know. The the dogs didn't like all the new babies that we brought home so.
Articulation Coach: No.
James Wade: The only I have very limited parenting advice. The only parenting I have. Advice, advice I have is, I have one child at a time.
Articulation Coach: And you can't.
Articulation Coach: Once that piece of advice.
James Wade: Yeah, it's not in your control, but much like most of parenting.
Articulation Coach: Yeah.
Articulation Coach: that was the only place where I thought you could actually maybe save yourself a little bit of time and also smoothness by having us go along the cat app rather than teach us the steps. Then show us the steps. You just do it
Articulation Coach: concurrently.
James Wade: Okay.
Articulation Coach: The objections I think you you nailed where the objections were. Objection? 2. I don't know if this is worth thinking about. But does this, reinforce your reminder of throw it away
Articulation Coach: like don't be like, if you choose, this approach. You do not want to become a hoarder.
James Wade: Yeah.
James Wade: people will laugh if I gave this internally, because I have way. Too many apps, even without the disposable aspect of.
Articulation Coach: That is a funny moment when you you could even say I might be the wrong one to ask. Here.
Articulation Coach: I've been accused of being a hoarder of apps.
James Wade: Alright!
Articulation Coach: Yeah.
Articulation Coach: yeah, it's very.
James Wade: Very clear.
Articulation Coach: Very clear structure. James and great Story.
James Wade: One thing.
James Wade: So I guess we were gonna talk about the hook as well right.
Articulation Coach: Yeah.
James Wade: So these were
James Wade: like
James Wade: these I've been. I've been brainstorming with one of the AI models on these to try to come up with a good one, and I I don't know that I've landed on it quite yet. I do like this. This is attention grabbing of like this of. I'm never gonna make slides for manager ever again. Sort of thing of like if they want something, I'm gonna make them an app.
James Wade: It's not quite true. So
James Wade: I don't know. It's still kind of fun.
James Wade: Then there's like this, the you know
James Wade: frustration that people often have of like you have you end up getting stuck in the minutia
James Wade: of the way that somebody's decided to display some data right? Like, you don't like the Graphic. And so you talk about what if we looked at it this way, like, okay, we'll just like, let's just start from an app, and then you can look at it. However, you want.
James Wade: That that's the part that I still wanna. I'm not sold on on these approaches quite yet.
Articulation Coach: What's the 3rd one? The analogy.
James Wade: So yeah, so it's this idea of like you you have. This
James Wade: painting is the analogy. And so, like you're you've been.
James Wade: You spend all this time creating a painting, and then do you want to? And that's where you come and show. And then that's it right. And people are just staring that the painting is the slide, right? The slide doesn't move. And you you spend
James Wade: trying to create something in somebody's mind. But instead, it's like you give them something that they create with you.
James Wade: which is not the the part that isn't quite right about it is they're not creating the app, but they now have something that they could explore along with you. So it's more of like a
James Wade: they're not necessarily creating, but they can. They can change it. So that's like the clay aspect of it.
Articulation Coach: Yeah. Yeah.
Articulation Coach: Well, the 1st thing I'm going to know is that especially for the last 2 hooks were the, did you? I'm gonna have to ask you later if you used AI to help you, because I'm really curious how people are using AI to help them with presentations.
James Wade: Sure. Yeah.
Articulation Coach: It reads like, just like the 1st part of it reads like, Oh, that's probably a prompt you gave.
Articulation Coach: I can tell by your voice. You don't like the second 2,
Articulation Coach: so I think you get rid of them because you don't like them. So if you continue to use AI to help you use your gut instinct if you're like. I don't like it. Then it's not a hook
Articulation Coach: that will work on humans, especially if you're the person delivering it to humans.
Articulation Coach: So we can X out those. I think there might be something to extend in the analogy. One, if you wanted to, which is more in the world of like a children's museum.
Articulation Coach: So in a museum for adults, you go in, you look at the paintings you observe, you appreciate.
Articulation Coach: and you take your kids to a kids museum. There's an exhibit. You touch, you play, you interact with it.
James Wade: Yeah, yeah.
Articulation Coach: And which place has more laughter.
Articulation Coach: I don't know right like which place is more fun. I don't know. Some people would still say the Museum, but they can keep using Powerpoint then.
Articulation Coach: so that could be a more apt analogy than the clay.
James Wade: Yeah, I like that.
Articulation Coach: And again it it you might have personal experience with that. So it's not quite so distant from you.
James Wade: Yep.
Articulation Coach: I also think there is something to the 1st one.
Articulation Coach: Have you ever had you ever been so frustrated by making a slide deck that you have thought I never want to do this again.
James Wade: Only every time I'm asked to make one against my will.
Articulation Coach: Well, then, you could mold what AI started to give you if you wanted.
Articulation Coach: That's right.
Articulation Coach: True hook, which is a little more true to you, which is
Articulation Coach: the way you just expressed it to me.
Articulation Coach: Like. Every time I have to make a presentation my heart sinks.
Articulation Coach: I never want to open my Powerpoint again.
Articulation Coach: and that could be your kind of bold proclamation start
Articulation Coach: now. AI was also overthinking it. Because you have a bold proclamation star already. If you scroll back up.
Articulation Coach: That's the only reason I'm hopeful that I won't ever lose my job is because AI can certainly give you stuff.
Articulation Coach: So you actually have a bold proclamation in here. Your goal.
James Wade: Yeah.
Articulation Coach: And so you could start from there
Articulation Coach: and get into your talk much faster. And so maybe if you want something that like helps people attach to it. Then you could play with the word like throw like the throw them away you could play with, you know. I'm not somebody who believes in buying clothing that you're going to throw away. I'm not someone who believes in this that you throw away, but shiny apps. I'm willing to throw them away.
Articulation Coach: and I'm gonna convince you to that. So
Articulation Coach: that could also be very simple. Hook.
James Wade: I like that.
James Wade: I think that's I think that's gonna be stickier I think I'm the.
James Wade: I think I'm the definitely on day 2. I forget if I'm in the morning or the afternoon. But people are already, like, you know.
James Wade: sold on all things data, science by then, so like they don't need
James Wade: you get pickier. I get pickier towards the end of the of conference to what talks I'm actually going to go to. And maybe I'm gonna go like chat with people instead of go to a talk. So.
James Wade: The audience is usually more bought in.
Articulation Coach: You're in the shiny section, right of the day.
James Wade: It's like there's Chinese things. I forget exactly what the section is.
Articulation Coach: It's okay.
James Wade: It's not like. It's not the the like
James Wade: where the shiny well, there is a shiny team member presenting in mind. But it's not where all the shiny team members are presenting.
Articulation Coach: Okay.
Articulation Coach: Well, Matt, I mean, if if you like that, I think that, or going with the detritus of the either, the thing is the things that they gave you is in the analogy section. If you scroll down to what they gave you.
James Wade: Yep.
Articulation Coach: If you have time, or as you're going through the talk, you feel like, boy. I've just been talking all app for a little bit.
Articulation Coach: and haven't been having much fun with my audience. Well, you have some great options here that could be put in places, so the analogy piece can be put in the section where you're talking about. Why, an app instead of a presentation. It's just a metaphor that fits there. It's not a hook.
James Wade: Sure.
Articulation Coach: In that case.
James Wade: Yeah.
Articulation Coach: Similar to the the bold, the you saying, I I
Articulation Coach: I never want to make a Powerpoint deck again. That could just be an aside. That's happening
Articulation Coach: at some point in the talk. So there's there's value in what they gave you. I'm just not sure.
James Wade: Okay.
Articulation Coach: And I will tell you my my personal taste is that the raise your hand? If, as a start to a talk.
Articulation Coach: it's gotta be really good, because so many people.
James Wade: I've done it.
Articulation Coach: Right. You've been in a lot of talks that immediately ask you to raise your hand. You're like, we just started.
Articulation Coach: Yeah.
James Wade: Earned my participation, yet.
Articulation Coach: No, I don't even know you yet. You asked me to raise my hand.
Articulation Coach: I've used it so. I can point fingers all I want, because I do it too.
Articulation Coach: Does that help you to kind of make your way through what you might want to use as a hook.
James Wade: Yeah, I think so I like this, I like just jumping right in because I think
James Wade: I think people will get it. And they're gonna be like.
James Wade: I think they'll get to the. So tell me more part pretty quick
James Wade: where they're ready to just kind of hear like what I actually have to say.
Articulation Coach: Yep, what you will probably need if you want to put a sub bullet right after your stated goal.
Articulation Coach: you're gonna because you just made a bold proclamation. We're gonna need something that lets us know a little bit about your perspective and who you are. I don't
Articulation Coach: include that you work for Dow, but it might be more along the lines of you loving, shiny apps. It might be about like the thing I said about not throwing other things. You don't throw everything away, but you throw these things away. We just need a moment to feel like, why is this person trustworthy for me to keep listening after that bold proclamation.
James Wade: Yeah, I could say something of like, you know, I have
James Wade: a 2 year old shiny app that has like 500 users, right? Or something like, I don't know something of, like, Yeah, I I built these things that I've had to be stuck maintaining.
James Wade: Yeah.
Articulation Coach: Yeah, something in that world. So that they're like, yeah, this is like, this is the guy. He's done it both ways.
Articulation Coach: Yeah, that's all it needs. There.
Articulation Coach: it's great.
James Wade: Okay.
Articulation Coach: Can I ask, like, what kind of prompts you were using to get AI to help you organize everything? What did you give it.
James Wade: Yeah. So so what I did was, I did a draft of my outline and then I actually took the recording
James Wade: that you had shared, and I, Jim, and I can now take the recording. That's be less than an hour. So I had to trim the video down a little bit. I gave it my abstract, and then my pitch to for the talk itself, and I was like.
James Wade: help me with the hook. Right! Tell, break, break some of this down.
James Wade: Actually, no, I said, improve the outline and give me some hooks for this, literally giving it the instructions that we had.
Articulation Coach: For the session.
Articulation Coach: Oh, I'm glad our instructions got you this, I mean, how much did you have to do after AI took over? Did you have to come and just kind of fluff it around and.
James Wade: I wish I could just show you this. My, I'm on my work computer right now. And it's blocked on on my work computer. But my personal computer doesn't have those issues.
James Wade: Yeah, it's pretty easy like you. Just
James Wade: no, the the models are getting quite good. So.
Articulation Coach: Wow!
Articulation Coach: I'm both excited and terrified by that.
Articulation Coach: I'm excited.
James Wade: Yeah, well.
Articulation Coach: I'm excited because our prompts were right.
James Wade: Like.
Articulation Coach: It got you like it got you where you needed to go, and that the recording was one of the things that also helped was the discussion, and the people part because I.
James Wade: Don't think.
Articulation Coach: I. Personally, I have a bias, but I don't think that there will.
Articulation Coach: You will ever be able to get people out of a good preparation for a verbal communication, because ultimately the audience is people. And AI just can't get you all the way there.
James Wade: Oh, sure, yeah, same thing of yeah. Creators of all sorts are are trying to figure out what to do with all this stuff, right? And.
Articulation Coach: Yeah.
James Wade: People like people.
James Wade: So that's.
Articulation Coach: But that's so helpful like I mean, I'm going to be telling my colleagues right after this call. Oh, my gosh! So I just talked to somebody. He told me what he did. He used the recording, which will be very exciting to all of us. Very cool.
Articulation Coach: And, James, I think you've got a really good talk on your hands, entertaining.
James Wade: Awesome.
Articulation Coach: Informative. You might even convince some people to make sense.
James Wade: Disposal.
Articulation Coach: Shiny apps.
James Wade: That sounds good. Well, I have to go run soon to go. Do daycare pickup to go pick up those crazy kids.
James Wade: Was there anything else we needed to cover for today.
Articulation Coach: You'll get instructions from me. I'll send you this recording with the same instructions everybody gets next time is about delivering some of the talk probably your hook through, like your problem.
James Wade: Okay, I'm looking forward to it. Thanks for jumping on. I appreciate it.
Articulation Coach: No, thank you for being so patient.
James Wade: Of course.
Articulation Coach: Bye, bye.
James Wade: Bye.